oh that my head were waters and my eyes
a fountain of Tears that I might weep
day and night for the slain of the
daughter of my people oh that I had in
the wilderness a lodging place for
travelers that I might leave my people
and go from them for they are all
adulterers an assembly of treacherous
men and like their bow
they have bent their tongues for lies
they are not valiant for the truth on
the earth for they proceed from evil to
evil and they do not know me says the
Lord everyone take heed to his neighbor
and do not trust any brother for every
brother will utterly supplant and every
neighbor will walk with slanderers
everyone will deceive his neighbor and
will not speak the truth they have
taught their tongue to speak lies they
weary themselves to commit iniquity
your dwelling place is in the midst of
deceit through deceit they refuse to
know me says the Lord therefore thus
says the Lord of Hosts behold I will
refine them and try them for how shall I
deal with the daughter of my people
their tongue is an arrow shot out
it speaks deceit one speaks peaceably to
his neighbor with his mouth but in his
heart he lies in wait shall I not punish
them for these things shall I not avenge
myself on such a nation as this I will
take up a weeping and wailing for the
mountains and for the dwelling places of
the wilderness a lamentation because
they are burned up so that no one can
pass through nor can men hear the voice
of the cattle both the birds of the
heavens and the beasts have fled they
are gone
I will make Jerusalem a heap of ruins a
den of jackals I will make the cities of
Judah desolate without an inhabitant who
is the wise man who may understand this
and who is he to whom the mouth of the
Lord has spoken that he may declare it
why does the land perish and burn up
like a wilderness so that no one can
pass through and the Lord said because
they have forsaken my law which I set
before them and have not obeyed my voice
nor walked according to it but they have
walked according to the dictates of
their own hearts and after the bales
which their fathers taught them
therefore thus says the Lord of hosts
the God of Israel behold I will feed
them this people with wormwood and give
them water of God to drink I will
scatter them also among the Gentiles
whom neither they nor their fathers have
known and I will send a sword after them
until I have consumed them thus says the
Lord of hosts consider and call for the
morning women that they may come and
send for skillful wailing women that
they may come let them make haste and
take up a wailing for us that our eyes
may run with tears and our eyelids gush
with water for a voice of wailing is
heard from Zion how we are plundered we
are greatly ashamed because we have
forsaken the land because we have been
cast out of our dwellings yet hear the
word of the Lord or women and let your
ear receive the word of his mouth teach
your daughters wailing and everyone her
neighbor our lamentation for death has
come through our windows has entered our
palaces to kill off the children no
longer
to be outside and the young men no
longer on the streets speak thus says
the Lord even the carcasses of men shall
fall as refuse on the open field like
cuttings after the harvester and no one
shall gather them thus says the Lord let
not the wise man glory in his wisdom let
not the mighty man glory in his might
nor let the rich man glory in his riches
but let him who glories glory in this
that he understands and knows me that I
am the Lord exercising loving-kindness
judgment and righteousness in the earth
for in these I delight behold the days
are coming that I will punish all who
are circumcised with the uncircumcised
Egypt Judah Edom the people of Ammon
Moab and all who are in the farthest
corners who dwell in the wilderness for
all these nations are uncircumcised and
all the house of Israel are
uncircumcised in the heart
[Music]